Greetings, and welcome to JW Broadcasting.
Here are a few highlights from this month's program.
Sam Wellay was torn between his career and the truth.
How did he resolve this conflict?
And what steps did he take to reach his spiritual goals?
Perhaps you've been impatient with someone,
because they're not handling a situation the way you would.
In a new dramatization, Nita and Jade learn how to cultivate patience.
In this episode of Our History in Motion,
we'll see how conventions strengthen unity and love among Jehovah's people.
This is JW Broadcasting for November 2022.
In our broadcast for this month,
we're going to discuss the quality of patience.
Think of how many situations we encounter they require patience,
waiting to rush our traffic, dealing with a difficult co-worker,
raising a child, overcoming marital problems,
coping with the illness of a loved one,
or maybe coping with an illness of our own.
Clearly, all of us face situations that require us to display a measure of patience each day.
If we don't have patience, we can become frustrated, tired, and discouraged.
But no matter what our circumstances are,
all of us can develop this quality.
How do we know?
Because according to Galatians 522,
patience is an aspect of the fruitage of God's spirit.
And with its help,
we can make this quality an integral part of our personality.
For this to happen,
let's now answer two important questions.
First, how can being patient help us to express our love for Jehovah?
And second, how can being patient improve our relationship with others?
Let's start with our first question.
How can being patient help us to express our love for Jehovah?
Let's consider what stated in 1 Corinthians chapter 13.
This chapter gives us a description of how love manifests itself.
Please follow along as I read verse 4.
Love is patient and kind. Love is not jealous.
It does not brag, does not give puffed up.
Of all the many qualities that stem from love,
did you note which one is listed first?
Patients.
It is an integral aspect of love.
We need both love and patience in order to be successful and ensure we're on the right course,
which includes pleasing Jehovah.
If we think of situations where a lack of patience was a factor,
we can usually identify where a lack of love was evident.
Take for example, God shows in people the nation of Israel.
In Psalm 106, written many years after Israel's deliverance from Egypt,
the Psalmist indicates that they continued acting with a similar disposition.
Despite that, Jehovah extended patience to them for many years.
Please follow along as I read Psalm 106, verses 7 and 8.
Our forefathers in Egypt did not appreciate your wonderful works.
They did not remember your abundant loyal love,
but they rebelled at the sea, by the red sea.
But he saved them for the sake of his name to make his mightiness known.
And what was the result?
Let's read verse 13.
But they quickly forgot what he did.
They did not wait for his counsel.
How sad.
The people did not wait.
They were not patient.
And that highlights that they did not appreciate Jehovah's patience and loyal love.
Love for God should have caused them to think about the consequences of their actions.
They should have remembered how Jehovah cared and provided for them.
That should have moved them to be patient and wait on Jehovah's direction.
But time and again, their actions show that they really didn't love Jehovah as they should have.
And it costs them.
They eventually tested Jehovah's patience to the limit.
And as a nation, lost his favor.
What can you and I learn from their example?
Never would we want to become independent of Jehovah,
trusting in our own thinking, and not patiently waiting for Jehovah's counsel to direct the decisions we make.
Think about how well we've been guided recently, regarding the pandemic.
Natural disasters in the organizing of our ministry.
Even if we didn't fully understand or even fully agree with all the decisions.
Our love for God helped us to take the time to think about Jehovah's care for us and trust him.
By doing so, we learned that if we're patient and submit to Jehovah's direction,
we won't go off course and will benefit ourselves and others.
And in doing so, we ultimately express our love for Jehovah.
Let's now answer the second question.
How can being patient improve our relationship with others?
If we go back to 1 Corinthians 13-4, the study note states,
patience is a quality that Jehovah and Jesus constantly show in their dealings with humans.
As imitators of Jesus and Jehovah, Christians are to show patience to others.
So if Jehovah and Jesus are patient with us,
it would follow that we imitate their example and be patient with others.
Let's start with the greatest example, Jehovah.
Think about the patience he's shown in waiting to bring it in to this system.
Jehovah has a fixed day and hour when that will take place,
and he's patiently waiting until that arrives.
He's bound himself to his own timetable.
Now rest assured, Jehovah is well aware of how we feel as his servants.
He knows that we wish the end of this system to come as soon as possible
and that we long to see the fulfillment of all his promises,
and he longs to fulfill them.
But he will not become impatient and act before his appointed time.
Why should we appreciate Jehovah's patience in that regard?
Please follow along as I read 2 Peter 3-15.
Furthermore, consider the patience of our Lord as salvation,
just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote you according to the wisdom given him.
Isn't that a powerful point?
Jehovah's patience is the means for our salvation.
Think about the number of people who are learning the truth every year.
Even during the pandemic, when we weren't able to engage in our typical house to house witnessing,
tens of thousands of individuals still got baptized worldwide.
Perhaps some of those included your Bible students, family members, close friends,
or maybe even you yourself.
And think about this.
If Jehovah had impatiently brought the end of this system,
five, ten, or twenty years ago,
would you have learned the truth?
So we appreciate that Jehovah is still patiently waiting for his day to arrive
and has allowed so many to attain to repentance and develop a relationship with him.
How should this affect our relationship with others?
Perhaps it can help us to be more patient with a progressive Bible student
who's still maybe struggling with a problem.
Or maybe it's still difficult for some of our relatives to see us as one of Jehovah's Witnesses
and to adjust to our beliefs and lifestyle.
But in imitation of Jehovah's patience, we won't give up on them.
And of course, reflecting on Jehovah's patience should move us to continue to have a full share in the ministry,
earnestly looking for those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life
and helping them to love Jehovah and serve him.
Then they too can benefit from Jehovah's patience just as we have.
We can also learn from the example of Jesus.
He demonstrated tremendous patience when his disciples were arguing among themselves
as to who was the greatest.
This apparently happened on a number of occasions.
And no doubt it's said in Jesus to hear this.
But Jesus was patient with them.
He showed empathy for them.
He knew how much the culture and the environment in which they had been raised affected their thinking and attitude.
That knowledge caused him to react kindly.
Note one beautiful example.
Please read with me March 9.
March 9.33.35
And they came into cavernium.
Now, when he was inside the house, he put the question to them,
what were you arguing about on the road?
Well, we know the answer.
They had been arguing about who among them was the greater.
Look at verse 35.
So he sat down and called the 12 and said to them,
if anyone wants to be first, he must be lastable and ministerable.
Did you know what Jesus did?
He patiently waited for the right time to correct them kindly.
He didn't make a scene on the road.
Verse 33, he waited until he was inside the house.
Verse 35, sitting down.
He calmed the situation.
He didn't push them.
Instead, he led them patiently by instruction and by example.
What a great example in avoiding becoming provoked.
And instead of acting immediately, waiting for the right time to address matters,
even when our patience is tested.
What else can we take away from Jesus' example of patience?
If you're a parent, can you imitate the way that Jesus dealt with his apostles?
It may be frustrating if your children don't respond immediately to your counsel,
or if they're slow in correcting their shortcomings, or perhaps you're an elder.
And someone you're trying to help may be slow when responding to Bible-based counsel.
But remember Jesus' example.
He never gave up on his apostles.
He kept looking for the good, expressing confidence in them,
and patiently repeated lessons that they needed so that they could draw closer to Jehovah.
If we do the same, not giving up, our patience may eventually be rewarded as well.
So to review, how can being patient help us to express our love for Jehovah?
It stops us from running ahead of Jehovah, demonstrating our loyal love for him.
Waiting patiently for Jehovah's direction and guidance ensures that our course is pleasing to him.
And second, how can being patient improve our relationship with others?
It helps us to avoid acting rashly, and to look for the good in others, and express confidence in them.
Hopefully, this discussion will help us appreciate the benefit of displaying patience in our lives.
With the increasing pressures of these last days, we'll need to display patience more than ever before.
Imitating the patience of Jehovah and Jesus will help us keep the right attitude.
We won't become overly discouraged or overwhelmed by the present wickedness in this system,
or even be impatient about when it will end.
Instead, we'll stay on the right course, keeping busy, working to develop a closer relationship with Jehovah,
and keeping active in our ministry, helping others to learn about Jehovah and benefit from his patience.
May all of us keep working to make the quality of patience a dominant part of our personality.
As we do, we will demonstrate how much we value and appreciate this wonderful quality
and bring all praise and honor to Jehovah.
To give Jehovah their best, some of our brothers give up lucrative and prestigious careers.
Making this decision may take time and patience, as we'll see in our first video.
I played in the series A, which is the top league in Italy.
I was on the national youth team, and I went all the way up to the men's national team.
Just the fact that you are good at your job is gratifying, and then there is also the financial aspect.
My mom and dad were Jehovah's witnesses, and so was my older brother.
At a certain point, I felt conflicted,
especially when I decided to draw closer to the truth.
There was no longer a family thing.
In time, something started to develop in me, a fire, a small fire.
Gradually, I came to the point of dedication to Jehovah, although I still played.
But maybe, not maybe, definitely, I wasn't giving Jehovah my best, my energy.
I was fitting my spiritual life around my work life, and not the other way around.
I excused myself saying, I'm just working, it's a profession.
Yes, it's time-consuming.
But of short duration, because athletes retire earlier, the closer I drew to Jehovah,
the stronger my inner conflicts became.
The circuit overseer who served the area I was associated with helped me.
I had known him since I was a child.
When we met again, the first thing he asked me was, are you happy with what you are doing?
Seems like a simple question, right?
But this question went deeper.
I'm very grateful to him and his wife for all the time they devoted to me.
They were very busy, but even on their day off, or in the evenings, after long days of activity,
they spent time with me.
In time, I moved to different cities and changed to various teams.
So he entrusted me, so to speak, to two other families.
They poured themselves out for me.
Sacrificing their time.
Without ever making me feel bad for what I did.
With regards to decisions about basketball, they never told me what to do.
I had to reach that decision on my own, whether I should continue playing or not.
It was their way of life that corrected me, so to speak.
Their example, their lifestyle, their priorities, they said.
And the joy they had in doing what they did, helped me.
It was more their example than their words.
It helped me understand what I really wanted from my life.
I started in 1995 and continued until April 2008, when I played my last match.
I, let's say, made a cut and quit playing basketball.
I'm glad I made it.
Sometimes I say to myself, if only I had done it earlier.
If only I had had the courage earlier.
I had the privilege of serving as a regular pioneer for two and a half years.
I was asked if I would like to apply for better service.
And to my surprise, I was invited to the Italy branch and served there for five years.
A few months after leaving Bethel, I had the privilege of attending the school for Kingdom Evangelises.
It was wonderful.
This sport, basketball, it's great, it's thrilling, it's exciting, but it's not the source of true happiness.
It's true. The world can give you a measure of satisfaction, but everything comes at a cost.
But it took me a long time to understand this.
Knowing that I'm giving Jehovah my best has made me happy.
Yes, there is a team, a large one, and we all play for Jehovah.
And its goal is beautiful, it's exciting, and its success is sure.
Samuel A said he'd wished he had given up basketball earlier to pursue spiritual goals.
From that we learned that decisions to spend time on personal interest, take away from time we should give to Jehovah.
The sooner we appreciate Jehovah's patience,
the sooner we enjoy the blessings which make us truly rich.
We're happy that Jehovah exercised patience with Brother Podesta and helped him to regain his balance.
If you're facing a career decision, be assured that when we focus first on serving Jehovah and teaching others his word, we're happier.
Samuel A was influenced by the patience and good example of loving brothers.
When we see how others are handling situations, we may not be as patient as we'd like to be.
That's what happens to Nida and Jade in the following dramatization.
How do they learn to be more patient with each other?
You're late. I said you're late.
Sorry.
You work here now?
Yeah, just a few weeks.
You look great.
What kind of get you?
I tried texting, you know, after you ended it.
Try last day. That was your favourite.
Jade, you were my favourite.
Olli, you know why I had to...
I know, but I want to study your religion.
That's what I texted.
Well, I got a new phone and I didn't see them.
Okay, but how about I leave you my number and we can meet up.
That's when you walked away.
Tell me you walked away.
He gave me his number.
What?
No.
Jade, he said he wants to study.
Yeah, he wants to study you.
We can't read hearts.
I think I can read yours.
He was sweet.
And if he wants to know the truth,
I...
I can't even believe this.
What does it say?
It says low battery.
No.
What the?
This.
Second Corinthians 614.
Do not become unevenly yoked with unbelievers.
There was no yoking.
I haven't yoked.
But this opens the door to the yok.
I'm not stupid.
You act like I don't know this.
No, you act like you don't know this.
That's a lot of backstory.
You asked what happened.
I thought you're like, you know,
something up in a word or something.
Anyway, now you know.
So, are you gonna call him then?
I don't think so.
Why not?
Because I don't think it's religion that he's interested in.
I could have told you that.
I made you a cup.
Thanks.
You're amazing.
Listen.
I'm sorry.
I know I came all strong.
No.
You were right.
But I could have been more patient.
I reacted too quickly.
I know you know what the right thing to do is.
I should have given you more time to talk out.
I called brother Davies
and gave him the background
and said if he's really interested,
he'll have a study.
Then I deleted all his number.
I knew it.
I knew you'd do the right thing.
Sometimes.
But I should have been more patient.
And I should have heard you out.
It's just not what I wanted to hear in the moment.
So we're good?
Always.
No more apologizing until I finish this coffee.
It's too painful.
It's so nice.
Haven't we enjoyed the journey of Nita and Jade?
From when they first appeared in our convention videos,
up to these latest episodes,
they've encountered situations we can all relate to.
Jade.
Progressing from Bible student to Bible teacher.
Learning to reject falsehoods about Jehovah's people.
And refining qualities like patience.
Nita has grown as a disciple maker
and as a caring spiritual sister.
The encouraging lesson for us.
Keep growing as a spiritual person.
Putting on the new personality isn't easy.
It can seem insurmountable for those in the grip of an addiction.
We'll see this in our next video.
What helps to cave?
Break free from compulsive gambling.
God left us when I was around five years old.
Then when I was 15,
we found out Mum had cancer.
And she passed away six months later.
She was only 39.
My two younger brothers were still in elementary school.
So I woke up early, did the milk rounds,
woke in a factory during the day
and went to school at night.
My life was super busy then.
My life became significantly easier after marriage.
Since my wife did the housework,
all I needed to do was work.
Before I was so busy that I never really got to have any fun.
One day,
a friend took me to a betting shop for horse racing.
And to my surprise,
I got lucky.
I was surprised that you can buy a ticket
and then you get all this money in your hands.
So that's how it started.
It gradually became worse.
To the point that I would get off the night shift
and go straight to the races,
I loved gambling more than eating and sleeping.
On my way home,
images of my wife and children would come to my mind.
And I had this nagging feeling
that I really should be getting my life together.
When I was broke,
I would go to the pawn shops.
I pawned our camera and even my wife's jewelry.
My wife started studying the Bible.
And to try and make my wife and children a little happy,
I also agreed to a study.
Before I started gambling,
I liked growing vegetables.
You know, everything a vegetable needs.
All the instructions to grow
is in this tiny seat
that is one or two millimeters in size.
I knew that couldn't just happen by chance.
I was convinced
that there must be a God.
Through my Bible study,
I learned that this God is Jehovah,
and that made me really happy.
I found you.
That's how I felt.
However, it was really difficult to quit gambling.
You know, many times I wanted to quit,
and I would pay back my loans,
but then take out some more again.
My wife's relative said to me,
only death can cure you.
So I had this conviction
that the Creator exists,
and yet on the other hand,
I was deep into gambling.
I knew Jehovah saw it all,
and I hated myself.
I attended a circuit assembly
for the first time,
put away the old personality
and put on the new personality.
As I was reading those words from the Bible,
I felt that was about me.
When I asked myself,
hey, what's happening to my life right now?
I saw how horrible
and ugly my mindset was.
I felt tears well up.
I knew this was Jehovah talking to me,
and I felt determined
to do something about it.
I couldn't do it on my own.
So I prayed to Jehovah
from the bottom of my heart,
saying, I really want to stop.
No matter what.
I want to hate gambling,
and not just avoid it.
Please give me this feeling of hate.
I prayed like this every day.
Since then,
I have felt zero desire to gamble.
There was one time during work
when I passed by a racetrack.
I loved bicycle racing before,
but now I felt this deep revulsion.
I knew my prayers were answered.
I felt Jehovah's patience
and so much appreciation
for how he allowed me in,
knowing who I was.
If I had continued that path,
I'm sure my family would have broken apart.
My relatives are all surprised at me.
I'm sure those trying to stop gambling
have many concerns,
but as long as you have that desire
to pour out those feelings to Jehovah
and jump into his arms,
you'll take you in.
He won't leave you.
I really want them to know Jehovah
as that kind of person.
How encouraging.
If you're fighting an addiction,
don't give up.
Pour your heart out to Jehovah
and ask for his help.
Don't be discouraged if you suffer setbacks.
Jehovah will be patient with you
as he was with Teke.
Did you notice that our brother's addiction
began subtly?
If only he had detected the early warning signs.
How can we remain alert
and safeguard our heart?
Let's find out in this Bethel morning worship
with Brother David's plane,
a member of the governing body.
Solomon had three horrible half-brothers,
Amnon, Adonijah,
and Absalom.
They were a lot older than he was,
but Solomon didn't try to imitate them,
and he didn't allow himself to be stumbled
by their bad conduct.
As if to say,
well, if that's the kind of people
they have around here,
I want nothing to do with Jehovah's Witnesses.
No Solomon followed his own path.
He developed a strong personal relationship
with Jehovah God.
And remember what the Bible says about Solomon
in the beginning?
Jehovah loved him.
Isn't that nice?
Wouldn't you love it if that were said about you, I would?
Jehovah loved Solomon.
And Jehovah blessed Solomon in many ways.
For example, while Solomon was faithful,
Israel was at peace.
In fact, Solomon said,
Jehovah, my God, has given me rest all around.
There is no one opposing me,
and I have nothing bad is happening.
So it was only after Solomon became unfaithful
that resistors were raised up in Israel.
Not only was Israel at peace
when Solomon was at peace with God,
but Israel was rich.
Solomon had no financial problems.
The Bible says that the silver was as common as the stones.
But when Solomon started drawing away from Jehovah,
Jehovah withdrew his blessing.
And so that prosperity didn't last
even during Solomon's reign.
Insight tells us there was a drain
on Israel's economy.
A Solomon was still spending money
as if it were going out of style.
But he didn't have the income that he once had.
And so even materially,
Israel suffered,
and Reaborm did not inherit the wealth from Solomon
that Solomon had had at the peak of his reign.
Now, as our comment points out for much of his reign,
Solomon did a lot of good things.
But is it possible that right from the beginning,
as involved as Solomon was in theocratic projects,
there was a little red flag
that something wasn't quite right?
It's possible.
Now, as our comment points out,
when Solomon became king,
he was a young man,
but he was a young married man.
In fact, when he became king,
Solomon had probably been married
for a couple of years already.
He had a little boy.
He was a daddy.
He had a little boy,
one year old, Reaborm.
But who was his wife?
Probably his first wife.
She was an ammonitis.
Ammonitis.
What do we remember about ammonitis?
Oh, yes.
Deuteronomy chapter 23 and verse 3.
Now, remember, when Solomon gets married,
King David is still alive.
David is probably at the wedding.
Now, here's what Deuteronomy 23 says.
No ammonite or Moabite
may come into the congregation of Jehovah.
Even to the 10th generation,
none of their descendants
may ever come into the congregation of Jehovah.
What part of never did Solomon not understand?
So could that mean that even before he became king,
Solomon had a casual view
of Jehovah's laws on marriage.
It's possible.
Well, why do we say possible?
Well, without being dogmatic,
Insight says that there may have been exceptions
for foreign women like Ruth the Moabitis.
But Insight also says that Solomon's ammonite wife
possibly contributed to his apostasy.
In any event, why was the first wife
a foreign woman and an animitis to boot?
Now, if Solomon had married a nice Jewish girl,
just one, and rejoiced with the wife of his youth,
don't you think that the history of Israel
would have been much different?
I think it would have been.
Now, let's take a moment to think about the women
Solomon did marry, pagan women.
Now, you may have relatives who are not in the truth.
You love your relatives and you go visit from time to time.
But how long is it before you run out of things to talk about?
Because we just don't have the most important thing in common,
the truth.
So we have to ask,
why was Solomon so comfortable with these pagan women?
What did he talk about?
Well, you can be sure he wasn't studying the watchtower with them.
But what was he doing?
What was the attraction to these foreign women?
Was it their humility,
their modest dress,
their chased conduct,
their quiet and mild spirit,
or was it mainly the physical?
Let's be blunt.
Solomon was attracted to the wrong kind of woman,
and there may have been early warning signs.
Speaking of red flags,
when Solomon began marrying many women,
I did a prophet or a priest ever approach him
and give him some counsel.
Did they ever read to Deuteronomy 17, 17,
which applied directly to the king?
Deuteronomy 17, 17?
It says about the king,
neither should he take many wives for himself,
so that his heart may not go astray.
Well, if he did receive that counsel,
he certainly didn't apply it.
And if he didn't receive that counsel,
we wonder why not.
Well, what's the application?
Today, we may be very busy in Jehovah's Organization,
but we have to be alert to any red flags
that, despite outward appearances,
all is not well with us.
A single brother is a regular publisher.
He is a regular meeting attender,
but on his night, nights off,
he likes to go to nightclubs,
and he's comfortable in that atmosphere.
He isn't shy about striking up conversations
with worldly people,
and he loves to dance.
Well, there are no sisters there,
so he dances with worldly women.
What's the attraction?
He's busy in the congregation,
but there's something there
that isn't quite right.
A young pioneer brother loves to flirt.
Several young sisters think he's interested only in them.
The attention makes him feel special.
A ministerial servant spends a lot of time
talking to a married woman.
When he's asked about it,
he justifies it and says,
we're just friends.
We're just talking.
Famous last words.
A fine young sister is offended
when an older sister approaches her
and points out that her skirts
and jeans are too tight to revealing.
Well, all these are red flags.
We need to examine ourselves from time to time
to see whether,
no matter how many privileges we have,
something isn't quite right.
When it comes to choosing a mate,
Solomon's example can be instructive to us.
How what qualities do we value in a marriage mate?
Spiritual qualities?
Or is it mainly the physical?
And we hope that the spiritual will catch up later.
A young sister is getting acquainted with a young brother.
He's really good-looking.
Has a great personality that gets along with everybody.
But how's he doing spiritually?
Does he have a good schedule for theocratic activities?
And does he stick to it?
For example, if you mention an article in a recent magazine,
does he often say,
I must have missed that one.
And that's what happens.
It's a bad sign.
Does he make spiritual activities a priority in his life?
If he doesn't do that while he's single,
what makes you think that he's going to do it
after you get married?
Will you change him?
Or will he change you?
As our comment reminds us,
Solomon enjoyed many privileges.
But he apparently felt that some of God's laws
just didn't apply to him.
Why not?
Well, we don't know.
Could it be what Solomon said in Ecclesiastes?
The King does whatever he wants?
Maybe so.
Solomon multiplied horses and acquired many wives for himself.
So what's the lesson for us?
No matter how long we've been in the truth,
no matter how many privileges we have,
no matter how much Jehovah has used us,
we can't afford to let down our guard.
We must guard our heart.
And we mustn't ignore any red flags
that might indicate that all is not well.
Theocratic conventions are a spiritual highlight
of every year.
They play an important role in fostering unity
and love among Jehovah's people.
In this episode of Our History and Motion,
let's explore how conventions have become
an essential part of modern day worship.
Good morning, brothers and sisters.
How delightful it is to be gathered together
for this spiritual occasion.
Jehovah's Witnesses love gathering at conventions
to learn, worship, and sing together.
But large conventions like these
with tens of thousands beating together
weren't always a part of our modern day worship.
How did they get started?
Let's find out in this episode of Our History and Motion.
The very first large assembly of Jehovah's people
was actually held thousands of years ago.
When the Israelites gathered with Moses
at Mount Sinai for spiritual instruction.
After that, the Israelites attended three festivals
each year, and just like today's conventions,
those gatherings brought people together
from different tribes to praise him as one big family.
In modern times, our first conventions were held
in the late 1880s, but they weren't exactly
what we'd think of as conventions today.
With just a few hundred in attendance,
they were really just big meetings
that brought the Bible students together
to commemorate the Lord's evening meal.
And they were all held in Allegheny, Pennsylvania, USA.
But that changed in 1893,
with the opening of the Chicago World's Fair.
The fair drew millions of people,
and with the railroads offering discounted rates
to Chicago, the Bible students saw it as a perfect opportunity
to invite the brothers and sisters
for a five-day convention.
About 360 attended,
a small crowd by today's standards.
But early conventions like this one
helped the Bible students see just how
a building it was to meet with fellow believers
from other areas.
Eventually, conventions became an annual event.
Some were held outdoors, or in a tent,
like the 1908 Convention at Putin Bay,
a summer resort on Lake Iriohio.
This convention was ten days long,
and it was the largest up to that time,
with an estimated 3,500 or more in attendance.
It was a chance for brothers and sisters,
young and old, to be spiritually refreshed,
spend time together, laugh together, eat together,
and build true bonds of friendship and love.
The world then suffered the devastating effects
of World War I and the deadly 1918 influenza pandemic
that had taken an estimated 50 million lives.
But that did not stop God's people.
Our bonds of love became even more evident
in 1919 at Cedar Point, Ohio.
This was the first major convention held
after brother Rutherford and his associates
had been released from prison.
Thrilled, to finally gather together safely,
the Bible students just kept coming and coming
until the entire program had to be moved outdoors
with some 7,000 in attendance.
Just three years later, in 1922,
Cedar Point was the location of an even more exciting convention,
with an average daily attendance of about 10,000.
It energized God's people to go on preaching
with renewed vigor.
Many conventions in the years that followed
help unite God's people in even more powerful ways,
like the unforgettable one held in Columbus, Ohio in 1931.
Imagine stepping into the Colosseum at the Fairgrounds.
There are 15,000 in attendance and the places packed.
Your program has two large letters printed on the front,
J.W. For the first two days of the convention,
everyone's trying to guess what those letters mean.
Just watch. Just wait.
Finally, brother Rutherford steps on stage.
Near the end of his talk, he presents a resolution
that climaxes with the words,
we desire to be known as,
and called by the name to wit Jehovah's Witnesses.
In the 1940s, World War II had left many countries
devastated and divided.
But Jehovah's Witnesses were growing in number and in unity.
In 1946, they gathered in Cleveland, Ohio
for the Glad Nation's Theocratic Assembly,
and the name couldn't have been more appropriate.
It was a true international convention,
with 55,000 delegates from 33 different nations.
Some even camped in tents and trailers to be there.
Tent cities were a common sight during big conventions of this era.
With our spiritual family continuing to grow,
conventions during the 1950s were held around the world,
even in places where resources were limited.
A landmark example of just how international conventions had become
was the incredible 1958 Divine Will International Assembly in New York City,
which was attended by more than a quarter of a million people
from 123 lands.
This was the largest international convention ever held in one city,
filling Yankee Stadium and just four blocks away, the polo grounds.
The greatest assembly of true Christians ever held is opening this day.
We are certain that Jehovah is with us and that we are here by Divine Will.
But what unified God's people at conventions like this one
wasn't simply gathering together in large numbers.
It was the spiritual content, riveting talks, practical symposiums,
new releases and starting in the 1960s Bible dramas on stage in full costume.
Those spiritual gifts along with the joy of meeting new friends
and united with old ones have made assembling together a true blessing.
But it hasn't always been easy.
In the country of Georgia where witnesses had faced severe opposition,
plans were set to hold the 2006 deliverance at hand district convention
in the Tbilisi Philharmonic Concert Hall.
But the hall management cancelled the contract just one week before the convention.
With just days before the opening session, an army of determined brothers and sisters
turned two plots of farmland into a convention site.
Harvesting the potatoes planted on the property,
building a stage in benches for seating and installing sound equipment.
When it was time for the first session, everything was ready
and more than 17,000 attended either on site or by telephone time.
Not only did the convention come off without a hitch,
but the attendees were overwhelmed with another unexpected blessing,
the new world translation in Georgian,
unifying them even further with their brothers and sisters around the world.
In modern times like these, special and international conventions
have been held in far-flung places around the world.
And when it was impossible to meet in person, we've even met online.
From Poland to Korea, from Australia to South Africa,
conventions were and still are joyful spiritual occasions for all of God's people.
They motivate and encourage us,
United's brothers and sisters, and most importantly,
draw us closer to Jehovah.
When we gather as a United Spiritual family,
it's a shout of praise to Jehovah.
It's also powerful evidence that we are a loving brotherhood.
Of course, we have to promote unity every day,
especially when someone has heard our feelings and our patients has tested.
But with Jehovah's help, we can become friends again,
which is the appealing title of our new music video.
Before we watch it, we want to show you a feature
that may help you benefit more from the broadcast.
Subtitles are available in a number of languages.
If a video has subtitles for your language,
you'll see this icon at the bottom of your screen.
Click the icon to turn subtitles on and off.
We're trying hard to help others find
friends eternally.
Now, please enjoy the music video, friends again.
Our program has focused on the beautiful quality of patients.
We learn to be patient with the way others handle situations.
We saw how Jehovah is patient with us,
as we free ourselves from destructive habits,
and how our patients in love reassures others too.
For this month's video postcard,
we travel to Guatemala and Central America.
What aspects of Jehovah's creation do you enjoy?
Jungles?
Beaches?
Mountains?
Rainforest?
Guatemala has them all.
It even has volcanoes.
Lots of volcanoes.
Southern Guatemala has a string of 27.
The first missionaries arrived in 1945.
By 1958, there were more than 700 witnesses in three circuits.
Difficulties arose in the 1980s
when the government organized armed civilians to patrol communities.
Some of our brothers were threatened with death
if they did not join the civil patrols.
But they stood firm.
Today, about 40,000 publishers serve in more than 850 congregations.
Their preaching methods are as diverse as the geography.
Guatemala's official language is Spanish,
but more than 20 indigenous languages are also spoken there,
including mom.
More than 500 publishers and 20 congregations share the good news
in the mom language.
These brothers and sisters are among the 49 publishers
in the Ulston Calco mom congregation and Ketzel Tanango.
They send you their love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.